Introduce beta Docker deployment (#215)
1Password/scim-examples: beta/docker/README.md

# Docker Compose v2

## Prerequisites

- Linux server with port 443 open
- Docker Engine (v20.10.3+) (see [Docker Engine installation overview](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/#server))
- Docker Compose (v2.0+) (see [Install Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/))

> **Note**
>
> This deployment example assumes Docker Compose is run locally on the Docker
> host. Deploying to a remote Docker host (i.e. using `docker context`) is
> _not_ supported.

## Get started

1. Create a DNS record that points to your Docker host, e.g. `scim.example.com`.

2. On the Docker host, clone this repository and switch to this directory:

    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/1Password/scim-examples.git
    cd ./scim-examples/beta/docker
    ```

3. Copy your `scimsesion` file to the working directory on the Docker host, e.g.:

    ```sh
    scp local/path/to/scimsession user@host:scim-examples/beta/docker/scimsession

>     ```

Reviewer: Instruct user to `chmod 644 scimsession` to handle the likely scenario they only had 600,

4. From the working directory on the Docker host, create a canonical configuration (replace `scim.example.com` with the DNS record from Step 1):

    ```sh
    OP_LETSENCRYPT_DOMAIN=scim.example.com docker compose -f compose.template.yaml convert > compose.yaml
    ```

### Configure 1Password SCIM bridge to connect to Google Workspace

If integrating 1Password with Google Workspace, additional cofiguration is required. See [Connect Google Workspace to 1Password SCIM Bridge](https://support.1password.com/scim-google-workspace/#step-1-create-a-google-service-account-key-and-api-client) for instructions to create the service account, key, and API client.

1. Copy the Google Workspace service account key to this working directory on the Docker host, e.g.:

    ```sh
     scp local/path/to/workspace-credentials.json user@host:scim-examples/beta/docker/workspace-credentials.json
    ```

> 

Reviewer: Here too, `chmod 644 workspace-credentials.json`

- [`compose.gw.yaml`](./compose.gw.yaml): an [override configuration](https://docs.docker.com/compose/multiple-compose-files/merge/) to merge the configuration necessary for customers integrating with Google Workspace.
- [`redis.conf`](./redis.conf): a [Redis configuration file](https://redis.io/docs/management/config/) to load the Redis cache with the base configuration required for SCIM bridge
- [`scim.env`](./scim.env): an environment file that can be used to customize the SCIM bridge configuration.

## Overview

The open source Docker Engine tooling can be used to deploy 1Password SCIM Bridge on any supported Linux distribution. A single-node swarm is sufficient. This example assumes that the Linux server is exposed directly to the public internet with Docker acting as a reverse proxy to the SCIM bridge container. Other configurations are possible, but not documented in this deployment example.

## Prerequisites

- AMD64 VM or bare metal server with a Docker-supported Linux distribution (e.g. Ubuntu, Debian, Fedora, etc.)
- Docker Engine (see [Docker Engine installation overview](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/#server)) installed on the Linux server

> - a public DNS record pointing to the Linux server

Reviewer 2: Public DNS A record?

- SSH access to the Linux server
- [Docker Desktop](https://docs.docker.com/desktop/install/) or Docker Engine installed on a machine that can connect via SSH to the Linux server and to your 1Password account

## Get started

> Before proceeding, you should review the [Preparation Guide](/PREPARATION.md) at the root of this repository. Create a public DNS record that points to the public IP address of the Linux server for your SCIM bridge. For example, `scim.example.com`.

Reviewer 2: ditto

The open source Docker Engine tooling can be used to deploy 1Password SCIM Bridge on any supported Linux distribution. A single-node swarm is sufficient. This example assumes that the Linux server is exposed directly to the public internet with Docker acting as a reverse proxy to the SCIM bridge container. Other configurations are possible, but not documented in this deployment example.

## Prerequisites

- Linux VM or bare metal server supporting Docker
- Docker Engine (v20.10.3+) (see [Docker Engine installation overview](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/#server))
- public DNS record pointing to the Linux server

## Get started

1. Create a public DNS record that points to the public IP address of the Linux server for your SCIM bridge. For example, `scim.example.com`.

2. [Install Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/#server) on the server (follow the Server instructions; Docker Desktop is not needed). We also recommend following the [post-install steps](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/) as noted in the documentation to enable running Docker as a non-root user and ensure that Docker Engine starts when the Linux system boots.

> 3. All following steps can be run directly on the Linux server, or by connecting remotely using the `--host` parameter or `docker context`. If you are already using SSH to connect to the Linux server, you can create and use a Docker context on your local computer that is connected to your 1Password account (these commands require Docker Engine or Docker Desktop to be installed on your computer).

Reviewer: I wonder if we should be as simple and straightforward as possible here. Maybe we should just lean into the "directly on the Linux server" and if someone is experienced enough and knows how to do this other ways, they can go ahead and do so. 

I'm not exactly sure that is meant by
>connected to your 1Password account

Just a couple thoughts, no demands here.

Author: My thoughts here are that someone needs to get the `scimsession` credentials and transfer them to the server where they are deploying their SCIM bridge, and this provides a sensible means to do so.

In the common case where someone is working from their daily driver workstation that they use to set up provisioning  for their 1Password account and using SSH to connect to the Linux server, this provides an easy means to create Docker secrets from the same workstation, and potentially even load them straight from their 1Password account via `op read` the same way I hint at for the bearer token in the callout. I intended to throw some more similar hints about that.

Creating a Docker context also sets it up nicely for the same admin to manage it in the future or as reference for someone else to create to do the same.

   *Example commands:*

   ```sh
   docker context create op-scim-bridge \
       --description "1Password SCIM Bridge Docker host" \
       --docker host=ssh://user@scim.example.com
   docker context use op-scim-bridge
   ```

   Replace `user` with the appropriate username for your Linux server and `scim.example.com` with its host name before running the above commands.

4. Initialize a swarm. Run this command:

   ```sh
   docker swarm init # --advertise-addr 192.0.2.1
   ```

   > **Note**
   >
   > If Docker returns an error about multiple network interfaces, uncommment the `--advertise-addr` parameter and replace the example IP (`192.0.2.1`) with the public IP address of the Linux server.

5. Clone this repository and switch to this directory:

    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/1Password/scim-examples.git
    cd ./scim-examples/beta/docker
    ```

6. Save your `scimsession` file to the working directory.

   > **Note**
   >
   > If you are deploying SCIM bridge directly on the Linux server, you will need to transfer the `scimsession` file

>    > from your local machine that is signed in to your 1Password account, for example:

Reviewer: > from your local machine that is signed in to your 1Password account, for example:
Another reference to "signed in to your 1Password account" that I'm not sure I understand the significance of. 

Maybe we need to clarify this at the beginning of the docs so that what this means, and it's significance, can be better understood throughout? 

In theory this _could_ be accomplished by someone who has the scimsession file and isn't yet a member of the account the SCIM bridge is associated with, so theoretically as long as you have the credentials you don't even need to be signed in nor have an account.

   >
   > ```sh
   > scp ./scimsession user@host:scim-examples/beta/docker/scimsession
   > ```

### Configure 1Password SCIM bridge to connect to Google Workspace

If integrating 1Password with Google Workspace, additional cofiguration is required. See [Connect Google Workspace to 1Password SCIM Bridge](https://support.1password.com/scim-google-workspace/#step-1-create-a-google-service-account-key-and-api-client) for instructions to create the service account, key, and API client.

1. Copy the Google Workspace service account key to the working directory.

   > **Note**
   >
   > If you are deploying SCIM bridge directly on the Linux server, you will need to transfer the Workspace credentials file

>    > from your local machine that is signed in to Google (or your 1Password account if you saved the credentials there), for example:

Reviewer: Same as above re: signed into 1Password account

   >
   > ```sh
   >  scp ./workspace-credentials.json user@host:scim-examples/beta/docker/workspace-credentials.json
   > ```

2. Copy the [settings file template](/beta/workspace-settings.json) from this repository:

    ```sh
    cp ../workspace-settings.json ./workspace-settings.json
    ```

    Edit the file. Replace the values for each key:

    - `actor`: the email address for the administrator that the service account is acting on behalf of
    - `bridgeAddress`: the URL for your SCIM bridge based on the DNS record created in [Get started](#get-started)

    ```json
    {
        "actor":"admin@example.com",
        "bridgeAddress":"https://scim.example.com"
    }
    ```

    Save the file.

## Deploy 1Password SCIM bridge

> After the DNS record has propagated, set the domain name for your SCIM bridge inline, use the template to output a canonical configuration that will create a Docker secret and deploy SCIM bridge, then create the stack from this configuration. You SCIM bridge should automatically acquire and manage a TLS certificate from Let's Encrypt on your behlaf using the supplied domain name.

Reviewer 3: Spelling fix, and suggestion on what is being set. 
```suggestion
After the DNS record has propagated, set the domain name for your SCIM bridge inline, use the template to output a canonical configuration that will create a Docker secret and deploy SCIM bridge, then create the stack from this configuration. You SCIM bridge should automatically acquire and manage a TLS certificate from Let's Encrypt on your behalf using the fully-qualified domain name (FQDN) for SCIM bridge based on this environment variable.
```

*Example command:*

```sh
OP_TLS_DOMAIN=scim.example.com docker stack config --compose-file ./compose.template.yaml |
    docker stack deploy --compose-file - op-scim-bridge

> ```

Reviewer 2: We're already pulling in `scim.env` as an env-file. We should be having users edit those rather than potentially setting them up for a poor situation where `OP_TLS_DOMAIN` is set multiple places.

Author: There's a method to my madness here based on [order of precedence for environment variables in Docker](https://docs.docker.com/compose/environment-variables/envvars-precedence/), but it could potentially use some tweaking for sure.

I have intentionally been trying to avoid editing files at all, especially for the most common use case. Setting variables inline means you can deploy in one step without editing anything. Providing `scim.env` with default config allows customers to use it as a base for their own customized setup if they want. It's also useful as a reference to hold information about the things that may be configured, either by editing this file or setting values inline.

> Replace `scim.example.com` with the fully qualified domain name that points to your Linux server, then run the command to deploy your SCIM bridge.

Reviewer 3: following same wording/attached as other examples

```suggestion
Replace `scim.example.com` with the fully-qualified domain name (FQDN) that was created in [Get started](#get-started), then run the command to deploy your SCIM bridge.
```

> ### Connect your SCIM bridge to Google Workspace

Reviewer: The organization of the docs here may be a source of some confusion for Workspace customers. 

It's conceivable (I'd wager it's _likely_) that a Workspace customer will have already followed the directions at line 112.

This is and admittedly tricky one to navigate from a documentation standpoint, but I think we just need to do something to foreshadow to a Workspace customer, around line 112, that they should NOT run the command at line 112. 

This could either be a specific call-out like "if you are not using Google Workspace...."

Or it could be a matter of putting the two commands visually close to each other so Workspace and non-Workspace customers can easily see that there are two paths and pick the appropriate one. This could be perhaps putting _both_ behind disclosure arrows with titles that they can easily see the two paths and expand the relevant one.

Author: I tested and planned for this. When you run this command, you should get a new or updated stack for a SCIM bridge that is connected to Google Workspace. If you go through the general instructions on line 112 first, you get a SCIM bridge that's not connected to Google Workspace first until you run this one.

If you are integrating with Google Workspace, use `compose.gw.yaml` to create the additional Docker secrets needed for Workspace.

*Example command:*

```sh
OP_TLS_DOMAIN=scim.example.com docker stack config \
    --compose-file ./compose.template.yaml \
    --compose-file ./compose.gw.yaml |
        docker stack deploy --compose-file - op-scim-bridge
```

> Replace `scim.example.com` with the fully qualified domain name that points to your Linux server, then run the command to deploy SCIM bridge with access to the required configuration and credentials.

Reviewer 3: Same comment as above

## Test your SCIM bridge

Run this command to retrieve logs from the service for the SCIM bridge container:

```sh
docker service logs op-scim-bridge_scim
```

> You can sign in to the URL of your SCIM bridge based on its fully qualified domain name (for example, <https://scim.example.com/>). Sign in with your bearer token to test the connection, view status information, or retrieve logs.

Reviewer 3: We should be consistent throughout on how we reference the FQDN or the DNS record in our example wording on what to replace.

You can also send an authenticated SCIM API request to your SCIM bridge from the command line.

*Example command:*

```sh

> curl --header "Authorization: Bearer mF_9.B5f-4.1JqM" https://scim.example.com/Users

Reviewer: LOVE THIS

> curl --header "Authorization: Bearer mF_9.B5f-4.1JqM" https://scim.example.com/Users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
curl --header "Authorization: Bearer mF_9.B5f-4.1JqM" https://scim.example.com/scim/Users
```

Reviewer: Rock on.  I don't remember where I even got the idea that led me to make this suggestion but trust you 100%
